# swan-lake

MarktguruApi is a C# project that provides an API for managing products.
It includes features such as product creation, validation, and logging.

This project uses a InMemoryDatabase – this is of course not suitable for production purposes.
For the simplicity of the project,
Authentication is done using a hardcoded username and password and is included as endpoint inside the project.
The access layer uses Entity Framework Core. 
The API is built using ASP.NET Core and MediatR.

## Table of Contents

* [Installation](#Installation)
* [Usage](#Usage)
* [Docker](#Docker)
* [Project](#Structure)
* [Endpoints](#Endpoints)
* [Postman collection](#Postman-collection)
* [Remarks](#Remarks)
  * [Update endpoint](#Update-endpoint)
  * [Performance considerations](#Performance-considerations)
  * [Logging](#Logging)
  * [Monitoring](#Monitoring)
  * [Security](#Security)
  * [Testing](#Testing)

## Installation

Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/MarktguruApi.git
```

Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
cd /src/MarktguruApi
```

Restore the dependencies:

```bash
dotnet restore
```

## Usage

Build the project:

```bash
dotnet build
```

Run the project:

```bash
dotnet run
```

## Docker

You can also build and run the project using Docker.

Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
cd /src
```

Build the Docker image:

```bash
docker build -t marktguruapi -f MarktguruApi/Dockerfile .
```

Run the Docker container:

```bash
docker run -p 5000:8080 marktguruapi
```

## Project Structure

* src/MarktguruApi/: Contains the main source code for the API.
* Controllers/: Contains the API controllers.
* Models/: Contains the data models.
* Validation/: Contains the validation logic.
* Behaviors/: Contains the MediatR pipeline behaviors.
* Utils/: Contains utility classes and global exception handling.
* MediatR/: Contains the MediatR query, command and handler classes.
* Repositories/: Contains the repository classes.
* tests/MarktguruApiTests/: Contains unit tests for the API.

## Endpoints

### Authentication endpoint

Authentication is required to access parts of the api.

To authenticate, you can use the following credentials:

* Username: Test
* Password: test

You can use the following endpoint to authenticate:

* POST /token: Authenticate a user.

### Products endpoint

There are several endpoints available for managing products:

* GET /api/products: Get all products.
* GET /api/products/{id}: Get a product by ID.
* POST /api/products: Create a new product.
* PUT /api/products/{id}: Update a product by ID.
* DELETE /api/products/{id}: Delete a product by ID.
* GET /api/products/paginated: Get paginated products.

### Health endpoint

Additionally, there is an endpoint for health checks:

* GET /health: Check the health of the API.

## Postman collection

You can find a Postman collection within the docs folder.

## Remarks

### Update endpoint

The update endpoint checks if an entry with the same version is available.
It raises a conflict if the version differs.
Because of limitation of the InMemoryDatabase,
the version is not generated by the database itself but inside the code.

### Performance considerations

The GET endpoints are using a simple ResponseCache to reduce the load on the server. In a production environment, 
the responses should be cached using a distributed cache like Redis.
Additionally, in a production environment, the instances of the service should be scaled horizontally with a load balancer.

#### Read vs Write

The project is optimized for read operations. The write operations are not optimized. I assumed that the read
operations are more frequent than the write operations.
To optimize write operations, the project should subscribe to a message queue like RabbitMQ or Kafka.
This would allow the project to handle write operations asynchronously.
If the use or RabbitMQ or Kafka is not suitable, the project should use rate limiting to keep the system stable.

### Logging

The project writes the logs to the console. In a production environment, the logs should be written to a log management
system like AWS CloudWatch or Azure Monitor.

### Monitoring

The project includes a health check endpoint.
In a production environment,
the health checks should be monitored using a monitoring system like Grafana.
In addition, the project should also return a health status of connected services like databases.

### Security

The project uses a hardcoded username, password and secret for authentication.
This is not secure and should be replaced with injecting the secret from the environment variables or from a secure store.

The password is currently stored in plain text in the source code. In a production environment, the password should be hashed and salted.

### Testing

The project includes unit tests for the API.
To get a better understanding of the performance of the API stress-tests, load-tests should be performed and monitored.
Tools for this are, for example, k6.